subject:I'm a hypocrite
body:
Hey [first_name],

This is about me being a hypocrite and 3/4 ethical AI.

I just got back from London, UK. I went there for The Podcast Show which is a giant conference about podcasting. You might be wondering how this is related to Apps for Matriarchy...

Long story short, the conference exposed an inconvenient truth: I've been acting as a hypocrite. The cognitive dissonance is giving money to companies like OpenAI, Anthropic and etc. that use this very money to prop up the patriarchy 🤦

F*ck...

And simultaneously, at the conference it was very clear that LLMs and AI aren't going anywhere. In fact, there's a lot more spaces they're about to invade. One company, whose founder I talked to 1-on-1 is using AI to generate 10,000 podcast episodes WEEKLY... and there will be more companies like hers. 

What am I supposed to do?

It's like the invention of the car. Cars reshaped out entire cities and destroyed communities to the point that not having a car can be a massive barrier.

I hate cars for that.

I drive one.

BUT...

Unlike with cars, AI is in its infancy as infrastructure. Right now it's malleable. There's a massive opportunity: it can be a technology for the People, or against us.

>>>
¾ ETHICAL AI
>>>

The question: is there a way to use AI without propping up the patriarchy?

And it's going to take all of our voices to figure it out. Do we put this technology down? Do we find ethical ways to use it? Is ethical use even possible?

I would answer YES. 

But are these systems competitive with the "big tech bros"? 

3 months ago the answer would've been NO. But today, there are open source models that are BEATING the "big tech bros"!

Why ¾?
That's the upper limit on ethics of any AI system as I see it right now.

Yes, anyone can take the open source models and run them on their own hardware. But those models are trained by China, also a country heavily involved in propping up the patriarchy. And the hardware that it takes to run these models is beyond what an average person has access to. And the hardware itself is produced by companies that are cogs in the patriarchy machine...

It's a mess...

And without your voice it's going to stay a mess. Your uniqueness, your difference is what is most needed.


You'll leave the next Apps For Matriarchy session knowing which alternatives exist to using AI without enriching the patriarchy.


This session will be directly shaping which tools Apps for Matriachy can use, and if it can use an AI tools at all.

As usual, we'll open with the discussion about our individual understandings of Matriarchy. 
But, there will be no live building this time. 
You'll hear what I've learned at the podcast conference, my reading of the Chalice and the Blade which is a book about pre-patriarchal societies, and then we'll dive into hearing all of your beautiful voices about where you stand with AI and ethics, and if you see the place for these systems or if they have no place at all. 

June 6th at 2pm Atlantic: https://luma.com/2us1cqgg

I'm keeping this session to 15 people max. Any bigger and it stops being a conversation and starts being a presentation.

I can't wait to see and hear you all again.



With love,
Anton
